REPORT
Executive Summary
Read the data into a list data structure
extract features
cleaned the content by removing punctuation, lowercasing words, digits and word containing digits
visualization with heatmap and bar chart plots 
results:
2003 was the year the most books were published
Roger McGuinn who wrote 12 books wrote the highest amount of books
The various authors are the ones with the most vast vocabulary.
Suggestions:
The data files should be structured in the exact same format to avoid missing data during feature extraction


Data Cleaning
I started by reading the data into memory. I looped over the text files and stored the files contents as an element in a list data structure, then chose the parts of the book I needed which by using RegEx to search all words between keyword ‘START’ and keyword ‘END”.
I used 50 text files ranging from 10463.txt to 10523.txt.
I chose 6 features which are: Title, number of chapters, author, publication year, content and word count (number of unique words).
I encountered missing values for number of chapters feature.
The title feature is an object type, number of chapters is an integer type feature, author is an object type feature , publication year is an integer type feature, content is an object type feature and the word count is an integer type feature.
I extracted all the features by using RegEx to search the text for specific patterns. I had some struggle extracting the publication year but I solved it by changing the format of the date which was originally “day month, year [ebook]” which I transformed to “day month(year)ebook]”  by using the replace method.
I dealt with missing data in the number of chapters’ column by setting the value of missing ones to 0.
I structured the extracted features into a data frame.
I dealt with mismatched data by removing punctuation, digits, words containing digits by using a lambda function and RegEx. I also dealt with capitalization by lower casing all words.
I stored the cleaned book contents into a column called ‘cleaned ’ using the cleaned I calculated the number of unique words used by using RegEx to find new words.
I then created a column in the data frame for word count


Exploratory Data Analysis
I created a heatmap plot to visualize the correlation between the integer data types and saw that the number of chapters and word count have a slight correlation.
I then proceeded to visualize distribution of features like publication year, author using a bar chart with matplotlib
Which prompted the questions 1: what year were books most published?
Question2: what author wrote the most books?
I also visualized the relationship between word count and author using a bar chart with matplotlib
Which prompted Question 3: what author has the most diverse vocabulary?


Descriptive Analytics
Question 1: what year were books most published?
From the bar chart 49 books were published in 2003 and just one was published in 2008, 2003 was the year most books were published.
Question2: what author wrote the most books?
From the bar chart of the top 10 authors Roger McGuinn who wrote 12 books wrote the most books.
Question 3: what author has the most diverse vocabulary?
From the bar chart, the various authors has the most lexical diversity with over 100000 words
Suggestions
The chapters should be labelled more appropriately to avoid missing data during feature extraction.
All data should be in the same format to avoid missing data during feature extraction.
With basic descriptive analysis I can’t deduce the genre of the book, I could make speculations but it could be wrong.





Bibliography
•	https://cheatography.com/davechild/cheat-sheets/regular-expressions/
•	https://stackoverflow.com/questions/1454913/regular-expression-to-find-a-string-included-between-two-characters-while-exclud
•	https://towardsdatascience.com/regular-expressions-f3ee2213b085

